# Running Your Application

**Object Properties and Methods**|   
---|---  
  
## Internal Settings

**Variable** |  **Description**  
---|---  
**Add_Pdffile$(**_pdfpath_ _$_[_, bPop_] **)** |  Method to create a work file (generally a PDF file) in the session's _tmp_ directory and return its pathname. **_Where:_** |  _pdfpath_ _$_ |  Returns the actual URL pathname of the file created, allowing the developer to use it elsewhere.  
---|---  
_bPop_ |  If _bPop_ is provided and non-zero, the system will also add logic to automatically display the PDF.  
**Base_Hide_Show_Redraw** |  Internal flag used to control whether, when a control gets hidden/shown, we redraw the page or just add the control on the fly.  
**Base_Use_Webtab** |  If non-zero, indicates that the template wants us to use Web-style tabs (Vertical).  
**Browser$** |  Type of browser.  
**Button(**_options$_**)** |  Method to create a new Button control. **_Where:_** _options_ _$_ will contain the standard Object Defined Control creation values.  
**Caption$** |  Current window caption text.  
**Chart(**_options$_**)** |  Method to create a new Chart control. **_Where:_** _options_ _$_ will contain the standard Object Defined Control creation values.  
**Chart_Colors** |  Number of chart colors defined in the _chart_clrs.txt_ file for the template.  
**Chart_Colors$** |  Chart color string with each color separated by a SEP character.  
**Check_Admin(**_psswd_ _$_**)** |  Routine that checks to see if the _admin_ password is correct and returns TRUE (non-zero) if the password is correct.  
**Check_Box(**_options$_**)** |  Method to create a new Check_Box control. **_Where:_** _options_ _$_ will contain the standard Object Defined Control creation values.  
**Col_Factor** |  Internal ratio between logical columns in HTML versus output columns.  
**Connected** |  Set to 1 if the browser appears to be connected. Set to 0 when disconnected.  
**Css_Pfx$** |  CSS prefix based on the browser. |  **"-ms-"** |  For IE  
---|---  
**"-moz-"** |  For Firefox  
**"-webkit-"** |  For Chrome/Safari  
**Ctl_List** |  Group object with the list of CTLS on the current window.  
**Currentwindow** |  Current window object.  
**Custom** |  Customization object handle.  
**Default$(**_val1$, val2$_**)** |  Default function that returns a second string argument if the first is null. Used to simplify the testing of a value.  
**Do_Log(**_text$_**)** |  Method to add _text$_ to the iNomads log file _(*plus/inomads/system.log)._  
**Document_Root$** |  Base directory for the Web server _(generally "*plus/inomads")_.  
**Document_Uri$** |  Web URL reference following the site address _(generally "inomads")._  
**Dont_Keep** |  Set to 1 if you want an immediate disconnect when the poll timeout occurs. No reconnect possible.  
**Download_File(**_fromfile_ _$_ [_, tofile$_ [_, asciiflg_] ] **)** |  Function to download a file. This routine will present the user with a **File Download** window from which he/she may initiate a download request. See **[File Uploads/Downloads](File%20Uploads%20Downloads.md)**.  
**Dq_Ctl$( )** |  Method to remove the next CTL value from the input queue.  
**Dragdrop** |  Object to handle Drag and Drop logic.  
**Drop_Box(**_options$_**)** |  Method to create a new Drop_Box control. **_Where:_** _options_ _$_ will contain the standard Object Defined Control creation values.  
**Drop_Window( )** |  Internal method to drop the current window structures and information.  
**Errdump** |  Error dump file. Used when the system is doing a dump due to a program error.  
**Errinfo$** |  Error information generated by the internal error handler. Saved here during dump and then output upon exit.  
**Errmsg_Rule$** |  Error message to display when the input violates an input rule.  
**Errmsg_Valid$** |  Error message to display when the input violates validation.  
**Exit_Url$** |  URL to send browser to when session ends _(_exit=value_ for URL).  
**Focus** |  Current object with focus reported to application.  
**Focus_Cur** |  Current object that has reported receiving focus from the browser.  
**Focus_Retry** |  Flag that current refocus is a SET_FOCUS RETRY.  
**Folder** |  Current Folder object.  
**Font$** |  Current default graphic font.  
**Get_File_Bmps$** |  Semi-colon separated list of file suffixes and their associated images to display in GET_FILE_BOX. **_Example:_** XXX=xxx.jpg;YYY=yyy.bmp  
**Get_Popfile$( )** |  Method to return the pathname to a target temporary file that application must load with data to be displayed in a new window on the browser. This function is used internally to handle the creation of PDF files.  
**Getfile** |  Object used to handle the GET_FILE_BOX directive. See **[GET_FILE_BOX](../directives/get_file_box.md)** directive.  
**Getmse( )** |  Method to emulate the MSE value.  
**Goto_Wdw(**_wdwno_**)** |  Method to emulate the 'GOTO' mnemonic. See **['GOTO'](../mnemonics/goto.md)** mnemonic.  
**Grid(**_options$_**)** |  Method to create a new Grid control. **_Where:_** _options_ _$_ will contain the standard Object Defined Control creation values.  
**Has_Menu** |  Indicator if the current window was created expecting a Menu Bar.  
**Header_Tags$** |  Additional META tags that you want included in the HTML.  
**Html$( )** |  Text conversion method to convert text to HTML text (replace < with &lt; etc.).  
**Html_Clr$(**_color$_ [_, backind_ [_, bHex_] ] **)** |  HTML color conversion routine that converts the standard PxPlus color specification in _color$_ to an HTML-compatible color string. **_Where:_** |  _backind_ |  If _backind_ is supplied and non-zero, the system will convert the color as a background (darker); otherwise, it is considered a normal foreground color.  
---|---  
_bHex_ |  If _bHex_ is supplied and non-zero, the resultant color will be returned as a Hex string with the format _#rrggbb_.  
**Html_Clr_Grad$(**_color$_**)** |  Logic to generate gradient colors using Style properties based on the _color$_ provided. The gradient flows from a lighter top to a darker bottom (+25% brightness to -25% brightness).  
**Html_Spc$(**_text$_**)** |  Converts _text$_ to HTML but also converts space to _& nbsp;_ for proper alignment.  
**Htmlfile** |  *MEMORY* file used to construct HTML prior transmission to device.  
**Htmlswap(**_bNew_**)** |  Routine to swap HTML build files used when handling an error during the HTML generation process. **_Where:_** |  _bNew_ |  If _bNew_ is provided and non-zero, the system switches to the temporary HTML rendering file. If omitted or zero, the system returns to the normal file.  
---|---  
**Htmlxlate$** |  String used in TRANSLATE command to convert text to HTML (converts <, >, &, etc.).  
**Http_Host$** |  Host address (value between the double slash up to the next slash).  
**Http_User_Agent$** |  Browser USER Agent string.  
**Https$** |  Contains either "ON" or "OFF" depending on if the server connection is secure.  
**Image$(**_imagepath_ _$_**)** |  Returns the HTML value to be used when referencing an image. Will copy image as required and return URL to temporary image.  
**Implied_Dp** |  Equivalent of system setting of implied decimal point.  
**Include_Js(**_jsfile_ _$_ [_, options$_ ] **)** |  Method to call to include a _.js_ into the HTML. Call this method with _jsfile_ _$_ set to the URL to a JS file to make sure the panel will have the JS included. If desired, you may supply additional options to include in the <script> tag in the _options$_ parameter. May force a re-transmit of the page.  
**Inid$** |  Workstation internal iNomads identifier (unique value saved in the browser localStorage).

#### **Note:**  
As of PxPlus 2020, cookies are no longer being used.  
  
**Input( )** |  Internal method to handle the INPUT directive. See **[INPUT](../directives/input.md)** directive.  
**Isplus** |  **_(Deprecated -- set to 1)_** Indicator to indicate if running PxPlus.  
**Js_Eval$(**_jsStmt_ _$_**)** |  Method to send a string containing JavaScript (_jsStmt_ _$)_ to the workstation browser for processing using the JavaScript _eval_ _(__)_ function. Returns the value of JavaScript or <err> if the statement fails.

#### **Note:**  
The statement should not cause the browser to send any additional messages to the host until the return value has been sent; otherwise, synchronization errors may occur.  
  
**Js_Go_Ajax( )** |  **_(Internal Use Only)_** Logic to flip to Ajax mode from HTML page mode.  
**Js_Lit$(**_text$_**)** |  Method to convert text string in _text$_ to a JavaScript-compatible string with apostrophes.  
**Js_Load_Code$( )** |  **_(Internal Use Only)_** Method to return/clear string that contained JavaScript to execute on the HTML initialization logic.  
**Js_Onload(**_text$_**)** |  Method to add JavaScript in _text$_ to the HTML initialization logic.  
**Last_Focus** |  CTL that last had focus.  
**Last_Msg_Tmr** |  Time that the last message was received from the browser.  
**Lib_Font$** |  Current library default font.  
**List_Box(**_options$_**)** |  Method to create a new List_Box control. **_Where:_** _options_ _$_ will contain the standard Object Defined Control creation values.  
**List_View(**_options$_**)** |  Method to create a new List_Box control with a List View type. **_Where:_** _options_ _$_ will contain the standard Object Defined Control creation values.  
**Load_Chart_Colors( )** |  Method to load the default chart colors.  
**Load_Colours( )** |  Method to load the default system colors.  
**Logonreqd$** |  Logon required setting from Transaction definition.  
**Lose_Focus** |  Last control to lose focus.  
**Map_Add( )** |  **_(Internal Use Only)_** Internal method used to add field overrides from the override file.  
**Map_File** |  Channel to the memory resident override file.  
**Mbx_Align$** |  Alignment setting for Message box.  
**Menubar** |  Object to handle MENU_BAR directive. See **[MENU_BAR](../directives/menu_bar.md)** directive.  
**Mnemonics** |  Object handle to the Mnemonic handler.  
**Mouse_Over(**_ctlid_ _, column_**)** |  Standardized method used to determine which control/column the mouse is over. This function returns the row (line) that the mouse is over based on the control identified by _ctlid_. If the control has columns, the second parameter _column_ will be set to identify the column.  
**Msgbar$(**_nSeg_**)** |  Method to return the value in the specified segment (_nSeg_) of the current message bar.  
**Msgbar$(**_text$, nSeg_**)** |  Method to emulate the 'MESSAGE' mnemonic. **_Where:_** _text_ _$_ contains the contents to load into/show in the message bar segment identified by _nSeg_.  
**Msie_Version** |  Microsoft IE version number. If the browser is Internet Explorer, this contains the version number; otherwise, it is set to 999.  
**Multi_Line(**_options$_**)** |  Method to create a new Multi_Line control. **_Where:_** _options_ _$_ will contain the standard Object Defined Control creation values.  
**New_Child( )** |  Method used to create a new child window.  
**New_Parent( )** |  Method used when creating a new Parent window.  
**No_Log_File** |  Internal flag used to indicate no system log file is present.  
**Non_Nomads** |  Non-Nomads flag.  
**Panelloaded** |  Flag used to indicate if the panel is loaded.  
**Parent** |  Handle to parent window object.  
**Pdf_Cnt** |  Sequence number for created PDF (and others) files in the _tmp_ directory (assures unique pathnames).  
**Popup_Menu(**_colno_ _, line, text$, index_**)** |  Method to handle POPUP_MENU directive. See **[POPUP_MENU](../directives/popup_menu.md)** directive. **_Where:_** |  _colno_ |  This is the column.  
---|---  
_line_ |  This is the line.  
_text$_ |  Contains the popup menu text.  
_index_ |  Returns the index of the item selected or 0 if non-selected.  
**Pos_Tbl** |  Internal memory file that is used to maintain a sorted list of controls to be drawn in the window.  
**Post_Body$** |  HTML script to include after the BODY tag.  
**Pre_Input( )** |  Method to emulate the PREINPUT directive. See **[PREINPUT](../directives/preinput.md)** directive.  
**Process_String$(**_string$_**)** |  Converts input string replacing all the <?BB tags.  
**Progbar** |  Indicator that the progress bar is active.  
**Prv_Pos_Tbl** |  Previous Pos_Tbl used by resize logic.  
**Prv_Scr_Hi** |  Previous screen height used by resize logic.  
**Prv_Scr_Wd** |  Previous screen width used by resize logic.  
**Radio_Button(**_options$_**)** |  Method to create new Radio_Button control. **_Where:_** _options_ _$_ will contain the standard Object Defined Control creation values.  
**Read_Caption(**_string$_**)** |  Method to emulate MULTI_LINE READ 0 and returns the current window caption line in _string$._  
**Remote_Addr$** |  Browser (workstation) remote IP address.  
**Rescue( )** |  Invokes session rescue logic.  
**Rescue_Seq$** |  Sequence number being rescued.  
**Reset_Files( )** |  Close open files to reset CHN the value specified.  
**Resize_Info$** |  Screen resize information as returned from the browser when a resize button is selected.  
**Scr_Hi** |  Logical height of the screen in lines.  
**Scr_Id$** |  Key to current panel.  
**Scr_Lib$** |  Pathname to the current library being used.  
**Scr_Wd** |  Logical width of the screen in characters.  
**Seq$** |  Sequence number of the current message being processed. Next message must be one higher.  
**Server_Addr$** |  IP Address of the server as provided by the HTTP server.  
**Server_Ip$** |  Same as **Server_Addr$**.  
**Server_Port** |  Port number on the server that is being accessed by the browser.  
**Server_Secure** |  Flag to indicate if the browser session is secure.  
**Session$** |  Session ID.  
**Session_Dir$** |  Session temporary directory.  
**Sessions$** |  Returns a list of active sessions on the browser (same **[Inid$](Object%20Properties%20and%20Methods.htm#inid)**).

#### **Note:**  
As of PxPlus 2020, cookies are no longer being used.  
  
**Setfocus(**_ctlno_**)** |  Method used to process the SET_FOCUS directive to set focus to the specified control (_ctlno_). See **[SET_FOCUS](../directives/set_focus.md)** directive.  
**Setfocus_Noexit( )** |  Internal method used to change focus without triggering the OnExit event for the current control.  
**Setfocus_Retry(**_ctlno_**)** |  Method used to process SET_FOCUS RETRY directive to set focus to the specified control (_ctlno_). See **[SET_FOCUS RETRY](../directives/set_focus.htm#Mark7)** directive.  
**Setfocus_Wdw( )** |  Internal method used to set focus logically to the window.  
**Setfocusread(**_ctlno_**)** |  Method used to process SET_FOCUS READ directive and return the current control with focus in _ctlno_. See **[SET_FOCUS READ](../directives/set_focus.htm#Mark9)** directive.  
**Sizable** |  Indicator as to whether the window is logically resizable.  
**StartUpReqd$** |  Loaded from the transaction definition. Set to "Y" then the START_UP program in the target directory is run prior to running the program/panel identified in the transaction.  
**Systemhelp** |  Object handle to the SYSTEM_HELP handler.  
**Tcpfile** |  TCP File connected to the HTTP server.  
**Tcpport$** |  Port number being used by the session on the application server.  
**Temp_Dir$** |  Pathname to the _tmp_ directory.  
**Temp_Url$** |  URL prefix for files in the _tmp_ directory.  
**Template$** |  Current template in use.  
**Template$(**_tplfile_ _$_**)** |  Method to return the contents of the specified template file specified in _tplfile_ _$_ after processing all <?bb > tags. File found based on the current template in use or default if no _tpl_ file found.  
**Template_Style$** |  Contents of the _style.css_ file from the current template directory.  
**Touch_Scrn** |  Set to non-zero if we think the browser is on a touch screen device.  
**Tree_View(**_options$_**)** |  Method to create a new List_Box control with a Tree View type. **_Where:_** _options_ _$_ will contain the standard Object Defined Control creation values.  
**Txid$** |  Transaction ID for the current session.  
**Upload_File(**_fromfile_ _$_ [_, tofile$_ [_, asciiflg_ ] ] **)** |  Method to request a file to be uploaded. This routine will present the user with a **File Upload** window from which he/she may initiate an upload request. See **[File Uploads/Downloads](File%20Uploads%20Downloads.md)**.  
**Url_Arg$(**_argno_**)** |  Returns the URL argument/parameter indicated by _argno_ _._ If no parameter is present at the specified _argno_ , an Error #42 will be generated.  
**Url_Arg$(**_name$_**)** |  Returns the value assigned to the specified URL parameter or **""** if not set.  
**Url_Arg_Cnt** |  Number of parameters found on the URL line.  
**Use_Child** |  Internal flag used to control whether function works on main window or child.  
**User_Poll_Routine$** |  If set by developer, system will call this routine every time a poll is received from the browser.  
**Userid$** |  Logical Userid for session.  
**V_Scrollbar(**_options$_**)** |  Method to create a new V_Scrollbar control. **_Where:_** _options_ _$_ will contain the standard Object Defined Control creation values.  
**Wait_Until** |  Time delay to maintain process alive after processing ends. Allows file downloads to complete at the end of the session.  
**Wdw_Closed** |  Property indicating that the current window is closing.  
**Wdw_Pop( )** |  **_(No Longer Used)_** Internal method to restore prior window settings.  
**Wdw_Push$( )** |  **_(No Longer Used)_** Internal method to save current window settings.  
**Wdwfromctl(**_ctlno_**)** |  Method to return window number given CTL value for a control within the window.  
**Web_Home_Dir$** |  Base directory for the application _(generally *plus/inomads)_.  
**Web_Url$** |  URL base used to run application.  
**Window_Open$** |  Options to include on window.open JavaScript call.  
**Winprt_Open(**_path$_**)** |  Method to emulate open of *WINPRT*. **_Where:_** _path_ _$_ will have the pathname specified in the program.  
  
##  Configuration File Settings

**Variable** |  **Description**  
---|---  
**Admin_Pswd$** |  Password to administration functions within the system.  
**Allow_User_Input$** |  URL tag that must be present to enable any command/console input.  
**Cache_Templates$** |  Enable caching of templates. For debugging purposes, it is desirable not to have the system cache the _'xxx.tpl'_ files.  
**Calendar_2Dig_Yr** |  Two-digit year conversion range. If zero, force current century, else maximum years in future that a two-digit year will allow before using date in the past.  
**Character_Set$** |  Character set to use when running applications.  
**Default_Txid$** |  Default transaction ID to use when launching without a TXID specification on the URL. Leave blank to force user to supply TXID.  
**Directory$** |  Default starting directory for sessions. If not specified, then the directory defined for the Web server will be used.  
**Fldr_Autoclose** |  **_(Not Available in NOMADS)_** Enable "Auto-Close" option on folders.   
**Forcelogon** |  Force Signon for all transactions regardless of TXID settings.  
**Get_Dir_Tbl$** |  List of directories to which GET_FILE_BOX will allow access. Each entry should be separated by a _comma_ or _semi-colon_.  
**Get_File_Popup$** |  Do you want the GET_FILE_BOX to have popup menus enabled that allow for file creation, deletion or renaming?  
**Language$** |  Default system language that will be used for any internal messages.  
**Launch_Ip$** |  Remote process launching IP address or server name.  
**Launch_Max_Port** |  Maximum port to use for the Launcher.  _(Both Min/Max must be provided.)_  
**Launch_Min_Port** |  Minimum port to use for the Launcher.  _(Both Min/Max must be provided.)_  
**Launch_Port$** |  Remote process launch port address. If not specified, port 4093 is used. If you want the system to **_only use_** the launch port for access, enable the **[Single_Port](Object%20Properties%20and%20Methods.htm#singleport)** option (see below).  
**Launch_Pswd$** |  Remote process launch password. Used to assist in securing the launch port process.  
**Launch_Root$** |  Pathname to the Web root directory as seen from the remote process server.  
**No_Dumps** |  Disable to creation of DUMPs when an error occurs.  
**Override_File$** |  Pathname to file which defines the control overrides to be applied.  
**Poll_Time** |  Poll time in minutes for each browser session to send message to host confirming activity.  
**Pxplus_Exec$** |  Pathname to PxPlus executable.  
**Pxplus_Lib$** |  System library directory.  
**Reconnect_Time** |  Reconnect time in minutes. How long a task will be kept alive after polls stop being received.  
**Show_Debug** |  Enable debugging/tracing by issuing a 'SHOW' of the background window when launching a window.  
**Show_Tasks** |  **_(Windows Only)_** Do not run spawned tasks in background when launching directly on server.  
**Single_Port** |  **_(Available Only with Apache and EZWeb Server - Not Available with IIS)_** Enable this option if you want the system to **_only use_** the Remote process launch port (see **[Launch_Port$](Object%20Properties%20and%20Methods.htm#launchport)** above) for access. When enabled, the system will ignore the Minimum/Maximum launcher ports (see **[Launch_Min_Port](Object%20Properties%20and%20Methods.htm#minport)** and **[Launch_Max_Port](Object%20Properties%20and%20Methods.htm#maxport)** above). _(This option was added in PxPlus 2018.)_  
**Std_Template$** |  System template to be used on panels that do not specify a specific template.  
**Syshtml_Dir$** |  Relative URL location of system HTML files. If blank, then _/syshtml_ will be used.  
**Tbl_Emul** |  Emulate the creation of standard NOMADS Name, Class and Type tables.  
**Tcp_Timeout** |  Internal network timeout in seconds for messages sent from the server to the application.  
**Timeout** |  Idle time timeout in minutes after which the session will be automatically terminated if no activity (other than polls).  
**Txid_Lookup$** |  Application sub-program that will called to process the TXID and return the library and panel name to be processed.  
**Warn_Time** |  Disconnect warning time in seconds. The number of seconds warning that the user will be given before an inactivity disconnect.  
**Wdx_Call_Prog$** |  Program to call whenever the system detects a "[WDX]" or "[LCL]" prefix on a CALL directive.  
**Wdx_Err_Ignore$** |  WindX error suppression enabled?  
**Web_Url_Map$** |  Shell.Explorer mappings. Comma-separated entries defining replacement text for URLs passed to the Shell Explorer emulation.  
  
## Template Configuration Settings

**Variable** |  **Description**  
---|---  
**Auto_Folder** |  Folder Auto-invoke option. If enabled, using the arrow keys to change tab will cause the folder to be changed immediately.  
**Avoid_Popups** |  Avoid using popup windows.  
**Barcode_Option$** |  Browsers to enable Bar Code Reader Icon on.  
**Barcode_Types$** |  Accepted Bar Code that the reader will process (Blank = UPC_A,EAN_13).  
**Btn_Sz_Adjust** |  Amount to adjust button size/position in order to assist alignment.  
**Calendar_Qry_Mask$** |  Mask used to test Query to determine if JavaScript calendar can be used.  
**Cbx_Css_Val0$** |  Off text value for text/html within style sheet check boxes _(normally blank/empty)._  
**Cbx_Css_Val1$** |  On text value for text/html within style sheet check boxes _(normally check mark)._  
**Cbx_Css_Val2$** |  3rd state text values for text/html within style sheet check boxes _(normally 'X')._  
**Cbx_Rbt_Adjust** |  Right justified Check Box/Radio Button pixel adjustment.  
**Cbx_Use_Css** |  Do not use standard Check Boxes. Always use style sheet defined Button Check Boxes.  
**Chart_Obj$** |  Charting object to use. If none, then no chart will be available. Path must be relative _*plus/inomads/add-ons_.  
**Chr_Px** |  Number of pixels wide that each logical column occupies.  
**Col_Px** |  Number of pixels used to define each table column when generating panels.  
**Disable_Tr_Height** |  Do not force table row heights, but allow browser to determine height based on content.  
**Fkey_Pulldown** |  Option to include Function Keys pull down on Caption line.  
**Flat_Img_Btn** |  Force all Image-only buttons to be 'Flat' _(no visible button -- image only)._  
**Focus_Outline$** |  Outline to use to highlight current input field. Format is "Color Type Width" such as "Orange solid 1px" or "Invert dotted thin".  
**Folder_Control_Factor** |  Height multiplication factor to apply to controls over 4 lines high within folders _(only when using Table rendering)._  
**Folder_Factor** |  Folder height factor. The folder height (in lines) will be multiplied by this value to determine height in HTML _(default 0: 1 - without frames, 1.2 - with frames)._  
**Frame_Bottom_Hi** |  Frame bottom height to allow for corners etc. in pixels _(0 means use 1 line)._  
**Frame_Btm_Adj** |  Frame bottom adjustment. Logical number of lines the bottom of a frame will be moved up to compute true bottom.  
**Frame_Height** |  Pixels to be added to window height to compensate for external margins.  
**Frame_Suppress** |  Enable suppression of 'Frames' that do not have titles associated with them.  
**Frame_Title_Hi** |  Frame header height override in pixels _(0 means use 1 line)._  
**Frame_Use_Hr** |  Use <HR> for single line high frames instead of standard frame display.  
**Frame_Width** |  Pixels to be added to window width to compensate for external margins.  
**Grid_Hi_Adj** |  The number of pixels higher your style sheet will make grid rows.  
**Grid_Wd_Adj** |  The number of pixels wider your style sheet will make grid columns.  
**Hide_Show_Redraw** |  Refresh screen when hiding/showing controls.  
**Img_Dir$** |  Image Web-based URL _(in HTML, will have "/" appended - Default 'images')._  
**Line_Px** |  Number of pixels high that each logical line occupies.  
**Lvue_Hi_Adj** |  The number of pixels higher your style sheet will make list view rows.  
**Lvue_Hilite$** |  How to handle list view alternate highlighting.  
**Lvue_Wd_Adj** |  The number of pixels wider your style sheet will make list view columns.  
**Maximize_Browser** |  Force browser to occupy full screen when 'SHOW'(2) issued _(not applicable to all browsers and not a 'true' maximize)._  
**Meta_Tags$** |  Additional header META tags to be included in the HTML.  
**Modal_Close_Child** |  When running a modal popup window, clicking on the panel windows 'mask' will close the child.  
**Overlay_Wdws** |  Overlay windows as opposed to creating popup windows.  
**Panel_Align$** |  Alignment of the panel on the screen.  
**Panel_Border** |  Width of the border to include around panel. Setting this to zero will result in no border around the panel.  
**Popup_Msg$** |  Message box text to show when avoiding popups and viewing other file/site.  
**Popup_Pdf_Msg$** |  Message box text to show when avoiding popups and viewing .pdf report.  
**Qry_Fullscreen$** |  Do you want to use the full width of the display when showing queries or use the screen width as defined in the query definition?  
**Qry_Listview** |  Use List View-based query display as opposed to full screen queries.  
**Qry_Pagelen** |  Number of lines to display per "Page" on the query display.  
**Qry_Popup** |  Force a popup for the query regardless of whether popups are suppressed.  
**Rclick_Option$** |  Option to include Right Mouse click button on Caption line.  
**Render_Absolute** |  Enable absolute rendering as opposed to old-style table base rendering.  
**Setwdwsize** |  Resize the windows on initial load to accommodate the panel size.  
**Shrink** |  If resize option is enabled (above), this controls the shrinking windows to fit the size of the panel. Windows will always be expanded if required.  
**Single_Frame_Crop** |  On frames with text (Headers), do not use end frame header formatted cells if frame is 1 line high.  
**Snapto_Lines** |  Dynamically 'Snap' (align) all controls to standard lines increments.  
**Tab_Height** |  Folder tab height in pixels. Generally, this should between 1.5 and 2 times line height. If zero, then 1.5 times line height is used.  
**Text_Close$** |  The text word to be displayed that will 'Close' a window. Default is 'Close', but in multilingual systems, you can change this.  
**Text_Restore$** |  Text to display when a screen is refreshed due to transmission errors or user sending out of sequence. Also displayed after session rescue.  
**Text_Timeout$** |  Text to display during disconnect countdown when device is left idle too long. Insert ##:## where the countdown is to appear.  
**Use_Backcolor** |  Use application defined background colors when displaying controls/text.  
**Use_Fonts** |  Use application defined font information when displaying text.  
**Use_Images** |  Include all static application defined images. Style sheets will provide images. Dynamic images will be included.  
**Use_Textcolor** |  Use application defined text colors when displaying controls. Simple text always uses application-defined color.  
**Use_Webtab** |  Use Web-style vertical tabs for folders as opposed to horizontal tabs.  
**Vert_Adj_Method** |  Use "Original" line spacing algorithm when applying vertical allowance (above).  
**Vert_Allow_Noframes** |  Suppress the vertical allowance (above) when rendering frames.  
**Vert_Allowance** |  Vertical allowance to use when generating HTML. Controls that start within this distance of proceeding control are to be considered on the same line.  
  
## Restricted or Unsupported Directives for iNomads

**Directives** |  **State**  
---|---  
**ACCEPT** |  _Not Supported_  
**CLIP_BOARD** |  Supported for IE  
**DEFTTY** |  _Not Supported_  
**DEF OBJECT** |  Supported for defining Shell.Explorer  
**EDIT** |  _Not Supported_  
**GET_FILE_BOX** |  Working on Directory option  
**INPUT/OBTAIN** |  Only supplies CTL events  
**LINE_SWITCH** |  _Not Supported_  
**MNEMONIC** |  _Not Supported_  
**MULTI_LINE for Rich text**  
 _(non-Rich text supported)_ |  _Not Supported_  
**MULTI_MEDIA** |  _Not Supported_  
**ON EVENT** |  _Not Supported_  
**READ/WRITE** |  Work in Progress  
**SAVE CONTROL** |  _Not Supported_  
**SETCTL** |  _Not Supported_  
**SETMOUSE** |  _Not Supported_  
**SYSTEM_HELP** |  Work in Progress  
**VIDEO_PALETTE** |  _Not Supported_  
**WAIT FOR EVENT** |  _Not Supported_  
**WINPRT_SETUP** |  Supported for READ/LIST and for server
