# Toolkit for Conversion from Thoroughbred

**Directory Contents (*conv.tbd)**|   
---|---  
  
The following is a list of the files found in the ***conv.tbd** conversion toolkit directory:

**File Name** |  **Contents**  
---|---  
_BUNDLTBD_ |  Thoroughbred program to convert programs/files to plain text for subsequent loading into PxPlus by _unbundle.tbd_ (MSORT files supported).  
_bundltbd.asc_ |  Source for old Thoroughbred program to convert programs/files to plain text. File contains clear ASCII text of the program that can be MERGEd and RUN. (Does **_not_** support MSORT files.)  
_unbundle.tbd_ |  Program to regenerate the programs from the plain text file generated by _bundltbd_.  
_array.cnv_ _  
enable.cnv  
equ_all.cnv  
finput.cnv  
let_ctl.cnv  
msort.cnv  
window.cnv_ |  Conversion tool programs for handling a variety of the unique Thoroughbred syntax formats.  
  
These programs are called as required by the _unbundle.tbd_ program.  
_prepass_ |  Conversion program that is used to prepass each line of a program applying prepass conversions as specified in _prepass.sys_ and _prepass.usr_.  
_prepass.sys  
prepass.usr_ |  Data files that define prepass conversion rules for programs.   
 _  
prepass.sys_ is supplied with the system and contains known conversion rules.  
_  
prepass.usr_ is intended to be altered by the user to suit their specific application needs.  
_convdata.tbd_ |  Program to reconvert the data files.  
_GETIDDBD_ |  Thoroughbred program to read/extract LINK/FORMAT definitions into a plain text file for subsequent loading into the PxPlus data dictionary by _gendict_.  
_gendict_ |  Program to load the extracted LINK/FORMAT definitions into the PxPlus data dictionary from the plain text file generated by _getiddbd_.  
_array_ |  Emulator program for the ARRAY INSERT/DELETE directives.  
_finput_ |  Emulator program for the FINPUT directive.  
_window_ |  Emulation program for WINDOW directives.  
_function.def_ |  Global function definitions and logic needed at runtime to emulate a number of Thoroughbred features.  
_iplinput_ |  Conversion tool for processing the IPLINPUT file.  
_start_up_ |  Sample START_UP program.  
  
#### **Note:**  
The _*conv.tbd_ directory will be found in the _lib_ directory where PxPlus was installed and, as with all system utilities, the system will replace the _asterisks_ ( ***** ) with _underscores_ ( **_** ). For the purposes of this documentation, it is assumed that PxPlus has been installed in _/pxplus_ thus _*conv.tbd_ will be in _/pxplus/lib/_conv.tbd_.

Thoroughbred is a registered trademark of Thoroughbred Software International, Inc.
