# System Parameters

**'U8'** |  **_Control UTF-8 Processing Defaults_**  
---|---  
  
##  Description

The **'U8'** parameter is used to control the UTF-8 logic in the system. This parameter contains a series of bits (flags) used to control the processing of UTF-8 data.

If the **'U8'** parameter is **0**  _(all bits off -- default setting)_ , then no special processing will be done for UTF-8 support. If **_non-zero_** , the following bits will apply:

**Bit** |  **Value** |  **Description**  
---|---|---  
1 |  1 |  If set, the system will consider all data as potentially containing UTF-8 data. When parsing data for field separators ($8A$), the system will ignore separators within UTF data strings. All graphical controls will handle UTF-8 encoding for display, printing and size computations. **[INPUT](../directives/input.md)** directive will convert extended ASCII to UTF-8 values. Text-mode screen handling will be limited to 8-bit ISO values.  
2 |  2 |  The system will generate an error whenever an invalid UTF-8 sequence is detected. If not set, the data will be considered normal 8-bit data and the UTF-8 encoding ignored.  
3 |  4 |  The **[POS](../functions/pos.md)** system function will assume the data is UTF-8 encoded when attempting to advance its pointer (increment value).  
4 |  8 |  The **[MID](../functions/mid.md)** system function will assume the data is UTF-8 encoded when attempting to sub-string data.  
5 |  16 |  The in-line sub-string logic will assume the data is UTF-8 encoded when attempting to sub-string data.  
6 |  32 |  Used to control UTF-8 support in the **[CVS](../functions/cvsextend.md)**, **[UCS](../functions/ucs.md)** and **[LCS](../functions/lcs.md)** system functions.  
  
_(UTF-8 support was added in PxPlus 2017.)_  
  
To enable UTF-8 logic, you will set the value of the 'U8' system parameter to a value made up of the above sum of the above option values.

#### **Note:**  
The **'U8'** parameter is automatically forwarded to the WindX workstation for processing.

_(The 'U8' system parameter and UTF-8 support was added in PxPlus v7.00.)_

##  Default

**0** (zero)
