# Automation in PxPlus - Appendix

**COM vs. Flat API Function Calls** |  **__**  
---|---  
  
The table below lists COM solutions to some DLL problems.

**DLL Problem** |  **COM Solution**  
---|---  
Path dependencies, multiple providers of a service. |  Use the registry to map from abstract class identifiers to absolute server locations, as well as mapping between categories and class identifiers.  
Decentralized definition of identifiers. |  Use GUIDs generated by an algorithm that guarantees uniqueness across time and space, eliminating the need for centralized identifier allocation.  
Specific management APIs for each service category. |  Supply a very simple generic and universal management API that accommodates all service categories, called Implementation Location.  
Sharing instances across process/machine boundaries. |  Marshaling of interface pointers, Location Transparency providing the ability to implement a server as an EXE or DLL.  
Different in-process, local, and remote programming models. |  A single model for all types of client-object connections supported through the interface structure, Location Transparency.  
Lifetime management of servers and objects. |  Universal reference counting through the base interface IUnknown that all objects support and from which all other interfaces are derived.  
Multiple services per server module. |  Use CLSID:IID:table_offset to absolutely identify functions instead of module:ordinal.  
Versioning, as well as interfaces, that are strongly typed at both compile time and run time. |  Support the concept of multiple immutable interfaces.
