# Maintaining Library Objects   
  
**Export and Import Library Objects Utilities** |  **__**  
---|---  
  
The **Export Library Objects to Text File** utility is used to save definitions of panel objects for output to a text file. The panel object definitions in the text file can then be imported into a different library using the **Import Library Objects from Text File** utility. These utilities are used for **_panel objects only_**.

Library objects can be copied between libraries by using the _Copy_ button on the **[Library Object Selection](../Library%20Object%20Selection/Overview.md)** tool bar or by selecting _Options > Copy_ from the menu bar (see **[Copying Library Objects](Copying%20Library%20Objects.md)**). However, using the **Export Library Objects to Text File** and **Import Library Objects from Text File** utilities is a more efficient method when a number of panels must be copied (for example, if you installed your application on several systems and want to update all the panels in the application library).

#### **Important Note:**  
For consistent results, ensure that your libraries are exported to and imported from the **_same_** version of PxPlus.  
  
**_As of PxPlus 2018_** , the **Export Library Objects to Text File** and **Import Library Objects from Text File** utilities have been revised using an updated format for the export text file. While the previous format can still be used by the updated **Import Library Objects from Text File** utility, the new format generated by the **Export Library Objects to Text File** utility is **_not backwards compatible_** with previous versions.

##  Export Library Objects to Text File

The **Export Library Objects to Text File** utility is invoked from the **[Library Object Selection](../Library%20Object%20Selection/Overview.md)** window either by clicking the _Export_ tool bar button or by selecting _Utilities > Export_ from the menu bar.

> This window consists of the following:

_Library_ |  Name of the library file to be exported as a text file. (**_Default_** is the current library.)  
  
Click the Query button to specify a different library file. Click the drop-down arrow for a list (up to nine) of previous selections.  
---|---  
_Export File_ |  Name of the text file to use for the output. (**_Default_** is the current library name with the suffix _.txt_.)  
  
Click the Query button to select a text file.  
_Clear export file before update_ |  Check box to indicate whether the text file is to be purged before it is written to. (**_Default_** is **_On_**.)  
_Select library objects to export_ |  Displays a list of panel objects in the selected library that are available for exporting. Click the check box next to an object to select it for export.  
_Export_ |  Outputs the definitions of the selected panel objects to the specified text file and displays a message when the process is completed.  
_Close_ |  Exits the utility.  
  
## Import Library Objects from Text File

The **Import Library Objects from Text File** utility is invoked from the **[Library Object Selection](../Library%20Object%20Selection/Overview.md)** window either by clicking the _Import_ tool bar button or by selecting _Utilities > Import_ from the menu bar.

This utility will only accept a formatted text file that has been created previously using the **[Export Library Objects to Text File](Export%20and%20Import%20Utilities.htm#export)** utility.

> This window consists of the following:

_Import File_ |  Enter the name of a valid text file to import or click the Query button.  
---|---  
_Library_ |  Name of the library that will receive the imported panel object definitions. (**_Default_** is the current library.)  
  
Click the Query button to specify a different library file. Click the drop-down arrow for a list (up to nine) of previous selections.  
_Select library objects to import_ |  Displays a list of panel object definitions in the selected text file that are available for importing. Click the check box next to an object to select it for import.  
_Import_ |  Imports the definitions of the selected panel objects into the specified library and displays a message when the process is completed.  
_Close_ |  Exits the utility.  
  
## Export/Import Library Objects Process

These steps guide you through the Export/Import Library Objects process:

**Step** |  **Description**  
---|---  
1. |  Invoke the **Export Library Objects to Text File** utility to specify the library file to export and enter the name of the text file for the output.  
2. |  From the list of available panel objects, select the objects to export.  
3. |  Click the _Export_ button to output to the specified text file. A message displays when the export is completed.  
4. |  Invoke the **Import Library Objects from Text File** utility to specify the text file to import and enter the library file that is to receive the imported panel object definitions.  
5. |  From the list of available panel object definitions, select the objects to import.   
6. |  Click the _Import_ button to import into the specified library. A message displays when the import is completed.  
7. |  Review the objects list in the library to verify that the selected panel objects have been imported.
