# File Maintenance Generator

**Updating a Generated File Maintenance Panel**|   
---|---  
  
Once file maintenance NOMADS panels and/or HTML pages have been generated, they can be easily modified by using the **[NOMADS Panel Designer](../../Panel%20Designer/Introduction.md)** or the **[HTML Editor](../../../HTML%20Editor.md)**.

They can also be regenerated by using the **[File Maintenance Generator](Fmgen%20Introduction.md)**; however, any changes made to the panel after initial generation will not be retained.

You can also update a file maintenance panel in the **[Webster+ Inspector](../../../Webster/Inspector.htm#view_libs)** if no changes were made to the panel after initial generation.

_(The ability to invoke File Maintenance Generator in Webster+ Inspector was added in PxPlus 2024.)_

## Using NOMADS Panel Designer

In NOMADS **[Library Object Selection](../../NOMADS%20Development/Library%20Object%20Selection/Console%20and%20Object%20List.md)**, select the file maintenance panel and click the _Open_ toolbar button to launch the Panel Designer. Alternatively, click the _Panel_ toolbar button or select _Objects > Panel Object_ from the menu bar, and use the same panel _Name_.

## Using HTML Editor

Invoke the **[HTML Editor](../../../HTML%20Editor.md)** and select _File > Open_ from the menu bar. Go to the directory in which the generated HTML pages are stored and select the HTML page to modify.

## Using File Maintenance Generator

To **_regenerate_** a file maintenance panel, the _Name_ of the existing file maintenance panel needs to be used to allow the File Maintenance Generator to reload the settings for the current panel definition. Once changes to the settings are made, the panel can be generated again.

#### **Important Note:**  
If the File Maintenance Generator detects that changes have been made to the panel after the initial generation, a message will display.  
  
In NOMADS, the message warns you that changes **_will be lost_** if you regenerate the panel.  
  
In Webster+ Inspector, the message advises you to use NOMADS to edit the screen but does not provide the option to regenerate the panel.

The steps to regenerate a panel are:

1. |  Invoke the File Maintenance Generator either in NOMADS or the Webster+ Inspector. See **[Invoking File Maintenance Generator](Invoking%20Fmgen.md)**.  
---|---  
2. |  Select or enter the name of the existing file maintenance panel. If Folder tabs were previously defined, select or enter the name of the **_Main_** panel (not a Folder tab panel).  
3. |  The settings for the generated file maintenance panel are reloaded. Make any necessary changes and, when done, click the _Finish_ button to regenerate the panel.  
  
_(The ability to regenerate an existing file maintenance panel was added in PxPlus 2020.)_

## See Also

**[Webster+ Library Object Selection](../../../Webster/Inspector.htm#view_libs)**
